[Music]
these heavyweight amphibians are African
bullfrogs and they breed explosively
when the heavy summer rains create
temporary pools each male competes for a
succession of females and fertilizes
their eggs he would accumulate several
batches of spawn amounting to thousands
of eggs when the exhausted females leave
it's a powerful incentive for him to
stay there's another good reason to
tadpoles need help to survive the
tropical Sun and it's shrinking effect
on their shallow pools the father takes
action and Shepherds his show like a
sheepdog herding a flock
if the water gets too hot he hurts his
tadpoles into cooler deeper water with a
better supply of oxygen the hefty male
also assumes the role of guard dog
[Music]
the tadpoles are once again heading for
disaster their nursery pulls a temporary
and prone to dry up in the heat of the
withering Sun this devoted parent is not
about to give up yet although a land
dweller himself he senses the need to
keep his offspring aquatic using his
strong back legs and pointed snout the
male digs a channel to a neighboring
puddle to save his family this
excavation work will flood his own
nursery or act as an escape route in
such circumstances a dutiful father is
key to survival
[Music]
you